Hello, everyone. Welcome back.
This is the solution to
the section 11 challenge.
And I'm in the section 11 workspace
and the challenge solution project.
I'd like to go over one possible
solution to this project.
This is a solution that
I've done, very modular,
all the functions are there.
they're all small,
they do one thing,
and they do them well.
So let's go through this.
Let's look at our main first.
Let's start there.
Main defines numbers, which
is the vector of integers,
just like we've had before.
And it's got a character variable
called selection, that's where
the user is going to type in their
selection, their menu selection.
Now we've got our do loop.
Our do loop, now there's -- I've
folded the code here.
There's obviously more code here
in the switch statement, but
I'm just going to show you the
overall structure of this loop.
So here we're doing
do display the menu.
Notice that now we're calling
a function to display the menu.
Then I'm going to get the
selection from the user.
So whatever they type in, I'm
going to store in selection.
But I'm not just going to store it in
selection, I want to make it uppercase
and then store it in selection.
That way I don't have to check
for lowercase and uppercase every
time I check for a selection.
And I want to do this loop
while the selection is not
equal to an uppercase q.
Okay, so that's pretty much it.
Now let's take a look at
our display menu function.
And it's right down here.
And I'll expand it right now.
And you can see that that's
the function display menu.
And all it is is the output
statements, just like we
had before inside the main.
So in this case whenever I
need to display the menu, I
can call this function and
I'm doing that exactly here.
Okay, now let's take a look
at the get selection function.
Here's the get selection function,
and you can see the name of
the function is get selection.
It expects nothing but it
does return a character.
So in this case, I'm defining
another character variable in here.
Remember, this variable here
is local to this function.
I'm simply reading from the
keyboard their selection.
And I'm converting it to
uppercase and returning it.
Okay, so that's that one.
So at this point, I've
displayed the menu.
And remember, the menu has at the very
bottom of the menu, enter your choice.
So I don't really need to prompt the
user for anything, it's already there.
So I'm displaying the menu.
I'm getting their selection,
and selection will now contain
an uppercase character.
Okay, perfect.
So now we're going to switch
off of that character.
And let me expand the
switch statement here.
So in this case, if the selection
is a p, I'm going to call a
function called handle display.
Because remember, p is to print
out all the integers in the vector.
And I'm going to pass in
the vector to that function.
If it's an a, I'm going
to do a handle add.
M is handle mean, s is
handle smallest, l is handled
largest, q is handle quit.
In default, I'm just going
to handle an unknown.
So you can see now that the logic in
main is exactly like it was before
except we're calling functions.
We don't have all that
code written in here.
Also this allows us to
think modularly, right.
Now I've got functions
doing those defined tasks.
So again, it's that boss
worker analogy at work
here, it's perfect for that.
Let's take a look at handle display.
So in this case, so
the user selects p.
Notice I don't have to check
uppercase and lowercase anymore
because the get selection function
already made everything uppercase.
So I'm going to call handle
display, and I'm going to
pass in the vector to it.
Because obviously, it needs
to display the vector.
Let's come over here to
handle display, and you can
see the function right here.
Now notice handle display, it expects
a vector, and I'm passing that
vector in by reference and const,
just as we've spoken about before.
This handle -- this display
method really has no business
changing that vector.
So I'm not going to even take the
chance that it will, I'm passing it.
By reference so, I don't
have to copy it and const.
So let's take a look at that.
All right, so we've
got our vector here.
So I'm checking to see if
the size of the vector is 0.
In which case, it's empty, and
I'm displaying the list is empty.
Otherwise, I'm calling a
function called display the list.
And I'm passing in that
vector, the same vector I got,
I'm passing to the function.
I could have looped in
here and displayed the list
right in here of course.
But I decided to create another
function because you know we
could tweak the behavior of
what the display looks like.
And I don't want all that
code in here unnecessarily.
So let's take a look at display list.
It's toward the bottom.
I'm going to scroll down here.
There's the display list
function right here.
Again, it expects the same vector
that was sent to the function prior.
And now if you look at the code, it's
going to print out a left bracket.
Then it's going to loop through
that vector and print out
each number, just like before.
But you can see that this
list displays just the list.
That's all it does.
And whenever I need to display
a list of integers, I could just
send it right into this function.
Okay, so that's display list.
I'll scroll back up.
And let's talk about handle add.
So now we're here handle
add, it's another function.
Whenever the user presses a, they want
to add a number to the list, right.
So I want to call handle add and I
want to pass the list, the vector.
So let's see the handle add method.
I'll scroll down slightly, and
we'll see handle add is right here.
Now notice that in this case,
I'm still passing the vector
by reference because I want to
add an integer to it, right.
So I need to have the
reference to it but not const
because I need to change it.
I need to ask the user for an
integer and store it in the vector.
So let's look for that code.
We're doing everything right in here.
We're saying there's an
integer called num to add.
Remember your scope rules here that
integer is local to this function.
I'm asking the user to enter
an integer to add to the list.
I'm getting that integer
from them from the keyboard.
And then I'm simply calling the
pushback method of the vector
class with the number to add
and displaying the message.
That's it.
Really, really easy.
Okay, so let me go
back up to the main.
And let's see handle
mean, how does that work?
Well, we'll go to the handle mean
function, which is right here.
Again, it expects a reference
to a vector and it's constant.
I don't want my handle
mean modifying the vector.
So what do we do?
We check to see if
the vector is empty.
If it is, we just say unable to
calculate the mean the list is empty.
Otherwise, we call calculate
mean, and we pass in the vector.
It's going to return a
double to me which I'm going
to display right in here.
So it's going to say the mean
is whatever number I get back.
All right, so let's take
a look at calculate me.
And I'll scroll down here.
This is calculate mean, notice
again, it's the same vector, same
syntax here by reference constant.
There's my total.
I'm looping through those numbers,
adding them all up to total.
And then I'm casting one of these to
a double and dividing by the size.
Exactly like we had before.
It's pretty much the same code that
we had in the prior challenge, the
section nine challenge except we're
breaking it up into modules here.
So that's it.
That's calculate mean.
And I think you can see where
we're going with the rest of this.
Here is let me close up handle mean,
we've got handle smallest, handle
largest work exactly the same way.
And then handle quit and
handle unknown, we're really
doing very little in there.
But I decided to make them
functions because you never know
what you need to do in there.
I mean suppose you're working
with files and the user quits
and you want to you know
close up files and so forth.
I'd like to do that in a function
and not here in the main.
I want to keep my main
really, really simple, easy
to read and straightforward.
So my handle quit kind
of looks like this.
Right here, you can see handle quit,
it's all it's saying is goodbye.
And my handle unknown is saying
unknown selection, I guess
I should spell that right,
unknown selection try again.
Okay, so that's pretty
much the solution.
I've got -- let me scroll up to
the top, and I've got all the
function prototypes at the top. So
there are my function prototypes
here the prototypes for displaying
the menu and getting the user
selection, display the menu
expects nothing, returns nothing.
Git selection expects
nothing, returns a character.
Then I've got my menu
handling function prototypes.
Notice that all of them expect
a reference to the vector that's
constant except handle add because
handle add needs to change the
vector, so it can't be constant.
Then I've got handle
quit, handle unknown.
And then I've got the functions
that actually do the work right the
display list, displays the list.
Calculate mean, give me the vector, I'll give you
back the double that's the mean.
Get smallest, same idea.
Get larger, same idea except
we're returning an integer.
Okay, so what do we want to do?
Let's let's modify this
program a little bit.
Let's add some functionality to it.
Suppose the user wants to
see if a specific integer
is in the list or not.
Okay, so how do we do that?
Well, there's a couple
of things we need to do.
Obviously, we need to do some
function prototyping here.
So let's do that.
Let's put it right under
here, under handle largest.
We'll say void, how
about just handle find?
We're going to find an
integer in that vector, right.
It's not going to change the
vector, but I still need the vector.
So I'm going to say const a vector
of integers, and I want it by
reference and we'll use the v.
Again, we don't have to use the
parameter names in here, but
I'm going to just use the v.
So that's my handle find.
Okay, now here we need to
know -- so here we need a
function that's actually going
to do the finding, right.
And it's going to return
a Boolean, true or false.
I really don't want to know
how many times it's there.
You could certainly write
a function like that.
But let's just call it find.
And what does it expect?
Well, it expects that vector
to look through, right.
And again, it's a vector of
integers, and it's by reference.
And what else does it expect?
Well, it expects the integer
that you're looking for.
So in this case, let's
just call it target.
That's the integer I'm looking for.
So those are my prototypes.
But before we even get to those
prototypes, let's fix up the menu so
that it displays that - that f, right.
So I'm going to go
down to display menu.
And right after display largest
I'm just going to say cout.
And we'll put an f in there,
and we'll say find a number.
All right, so that should display now.
Now what do we do?
Well, we need to handle
that case in main, right.
So we'll do it right after
the largest right here.
So we'll say case f in this case
and we don't have to worry about
the lower case because it's going
to be converted to an upper case.
And we'll say handle find.
And we've got numbers.
All right, perfect.
So now what we need to do is
we need to write these two
functions that we prototype.
We need to write handle find
and we need to write the
find function, these two.
So let's do handle find first.
And we'll put it right at the bottom
of the handle functions, right
here right after handle largest.
And we could write a comment
in here, but I'm not going to
right now just to save time.
So there's my handle find.
Okay, now what does the handle
find function have to do?
Well, it has to ask the user to enter
the integer they want to find, right.
So let's just call it target.
And we'll initialize it to 0.
And we'll just say something
like cout, enter the number
to find or to search for
whatever you want to call it.
And we'll read that into target.
Okay, now what do we do?
Well, we've got that function
we still need to write the find
function that returns a Boolean.
So we're going to use that right
now without even writing it because
we know what it looks like. We
wrote the prototype for it, right.
So I'm going to say if find,
and I'm going to pass into
it the vector and the target.
Let me get rid of some of
those parens, that's it.
So if find that target and
this vector returns true,
then the integer's in there.
So we could just write
something like target was
found, else target wasn't found.
And I'll put some new lines
at the end, some endlines.
That's pretty much
handles that function.
So what do we have left to implement?
Well, we need to implement -- let
me scroll up a little bit here.
We need to implement this
function, right here, the one
that returns the true false value.
And I'm going to put that all
the way at the bottom with all
my other good functions that
doing that are doing work.
Do it right after it
gets smallest right here.
Let's write it right here.
And there's the prototype, right.
So what am I going to do here?
Well, I'm going to loop
through the vector and compare
each element to the target.
If it's there, I'm out.
If it's not, I keep looping.
And if I get to the end,
I never found it, right.
So we can do something like for,
again, auto num for each element
through the loop will be called num.
And there's my collection, the vector.
And we'll just say if num is
equal to my target,
then I'm done. I found it.
I'm going to return true.
Now if we get all the way to the end
of the loop, we don't want to put
this here, you want to put this here.
We'll just simply say
return false, right.
We never found it.
So let's run this.
Okay, we've got an error that says
number was not declared in this
scope because it should be numbers.
All right, hopefully, you see that
error right there, which is the typo.
And let's try it again.
There's our run.
Here you see the f in the menu
now so let's find a number.
Let's find a 100.
Notice how it asks me
for the number to find.
Now the list is empty, right.
So I should not find it.
100 was not found, goodbye.
What happened.
That's an error, right.
I should have never printed goodbye.
Let's quit and see what's going on.
Need a break statement, that's
why we need to test our code,
forgot the break statement.
Remember, with the switch it goes to
the next one, so handle quit fired.
Let's try this one more time.
Okay, so let's find 100.
100 was not found.
We get the menu again.
Let's add 100.
And let's look for it again.
So I'm pressing f for find.
Let's find 100.
Now it says 100 was found.
And let's print the numbers.
There you go, 100.
So we've modularized our system
into a series of functions.
We easily added a new behavior
to this which is the find.
And you can see now the code is
longer, for sure, because you will
also have a lot of comments in here.
But you've got these really
well-defined logical functions
that are much easier to debug now.
If there's something wrong, you
can come in here and tweak it.
You can also extend the
behavior of the add rather
than having just one big main.
And if you make any changes,
you're going to put all your
logic in there and that main
gets out of control very quickly.
Okay, so hopefully, your solution
it's probably going to be different
from mine, and that's perfectly fine.
Hopefully, it worked out okay.
And if you have any comments on it,
please leave them in the course forum.